---
layout: module
title:  The bitcoin whitepaper - with notes
date:   2021-01-06 12:00:00 +0300
postid: 106
image:  '/images/banner-01.jpg'
category: intro-to-blockchain
course: intro-to-blockchain
time: 30
format: article
level: intermediate
modno: 6
tags:   [bitcoin, blockchain, satoshi, whitepaper]
description: The paper that began this entire journey!
---

The Bitcoin white paper appeared on [The Cryptography Mailing list](https://satoshi.nakamotoinstitute.org/emails/cryptography/) on 31 October, 2008. The email was sent by one
"Satoshi Nakamoto" and said:

    I've been working on a new electronic cash system that's fully
    peer-to-peer, with no trusted third party.

    The paper is available at:
    http://www.bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf

    The main properties:
    Double-spending is prevented with a peer-to-peer network.
    No mint or other trusted parties.
    Participants can be anonymous.
    New coins are made from Hashcash style proof-of-work.
    The proof-of-work for new coin generation also powers the
    network to prevent double-spending.

This is the last module in this introductory course. You should have all the tools necessary to read and get a high-level
understanding of the white paper.

Don't worry if you don't understand all the details at first! Very few people grok the entire thing on the first reading.
You'll find yourself coming back to this paper time and time again. Every time, you'll gain a little more insight into
the technology that will change society's relationship with money forever.

<div id="adobe-dc-view" style="width: 100%;"></div>
<script src="https://documentcloud.adobe.com/view-sdk/main.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
	document.addEventListener("adobe_dc_view_sdk.ready", function(){
		var adobeDCView = new AdobeDC.View({clientId: "1669aff07fac4f42b1c3ba917d60cf9f", divId: "adobe-dc-view"});
		adobeDCView.previewFile({
			content:{location: {url: "/pdf/bitcoin.pdf"}},
			metaData:{fileName: "Bitcoin Whitepaper.pdf"}
		}, {embedMode: "IN_LINE"});
	});
</script>
